You're at the Kingdom Hall about to give a public talk.
Will the audience listen to what you have to say?
Much depends on how you introduce your subject.
An effective introduction arouses interest, identifies your subject, and shows why the
subject is important to your listeners.
Let's give our brother an opportunity to introduce his subject.
As the meeting chairman mentioned, we're going to talk about death and what it means to
you and me.
Let's read a scripture at Ecclesiastes95.
So what do you think?
Did the speaker identify his subject?
Yes.
Did he arouse interest?
Not so much.
Did he show why the subject is important?
No.
So how might he approach the subject differently?
Let's watch.
Throughout all of human history, not one person has escaped death.
The lives of some people are cut short suddenly by unexpected events or illness.
Have you ever lost a loved one in death?
If so, you know how painful that is.
But how can something that causes so much pain be a normal, natural part of life?
The Bible is the key to understanding why we die.
Where we go when we die and how death will be reversed.
Let's consider each of those points.
You can apply this principle to any subject when giving a talk.
But how can you effectively introduce a subject in the ministry?
Remember of course that in most cases you're a complete stranger to the householder.
Try not to startle the person.
Identify yourself early in the conversation.
To determine what a person might be interested in, observe his activities or surroundings.
You might begin by asking a question or making a brief comment about those things.
Let's consider one example.
Hi, my name's Jill.
I'm here to talk about God's purpose for the future.
The Bible says here, sorry, but I don't have time to talk.
Was the introduction effective?
The householder didn't want to continue the conversation, so apparently the introduction didn't arouse interest.
How might the publisher have handled the situation better?
Good morning.
You have a beautiful garden.
It must take a lot of work.
It sure does.
Well, your work is certainly paying off.
Thank you.
By the way, my name's Jill, and this is Tammy.
I'm Emily.
Emily, you work so hard to care for the garden you planted.
Do you think that God cares the same way about this planet that he created?
Because the publisher took into account the interests of the householder,
she increased the chances of starting a conversation and sharing the kingdom message.
This can also be done in urban areas where people expect you to get right to the point.
In such settings, try to include a thought-provoking statement or a question in your introduction.
Effective introductions are the first step toward productive conversations and presentations of the good news.